# AI Course Maker

A Fullstack MERN application with AI integration using Gemini API in backend to generate AI courses based on prompt given by user.

## Description

This project generates a structured course of 5 modules that is stylized in accordions. The modules are in markdown format and they are stylized with the help of react-markdown component. There is a Learn More Button to increase course modules in increments of 5 modules. There are Login, Signup and Dashboard pages for Authentication and User-based course storage. The Dashboard displays the courses generated by a User and they can be deleted or opened again to see course info.

## Tech Stack

- MERN Stack (Mongodb, ExpressJS, ReactJS by Vite, NodeJS)
- React Router for routing
- JWT and AUTH Setup with jsonwebtoken and Mongoose for Mongodb
- Axios for requests and REST API structure
- TailwindCSS for styling
- Gemini API(@google/genai) for AI based Course Generation

## Installation/Local Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Sameer-C90/ai-course-maker.git
cd ai-course-maker
cd server
npm install
cd ..
cd client
npm install
```

## Backend Setup

```bash
cd server
touch .env
```
Add these env variables for local use of the backend API.
```
PORT=<custom port for hosting>
GEMINI_API_KEY=<gemini api key for course generation>
MONGO_URI=<mongo uri for custom mongodb storage>
JWT_SECRET=<a secret keyword to make jwt secure>
JWT_LIFETIME=<jwt lifetime>
```

## Frontend Setup
To setup backend url for frontend follow this -
```bash
cd client
touch .env
```
Now add the backend url where it's hosted
```
VITE_API_URL=<backend host>
```

## Usage
Open the project directory with client and server directories as separate terminals. On both of them run -
```bash
npm run dev
```
Go to the frontend url and you can use the application. You can also make REST API based requests to backend separately to get the API results.